---
Title: Louie you broke my heartache
description: Trying to cope with the sexual harassment allegations against my favorite comedian.
tags:
- ARMCHAIR PHILOSOPHY
- RANT
---

2pm at work. It's been a slow day, I've done close to nothing (which isn't to say there was nothing to do, I simply chose to not work). I am absentmindedly refreshing reddit when I notice Louis CK's name in the headlines. He has been accused of sexual harassment by five different women, his movie premier in New York cancelled, and Stephen Colbert appearance similarly handled. Shock, shock, numbness.

How could this be? My favorite comedian? The man who I found perfectly captured the darkness of depression in Horace and Pete, found humor in the often messed up reality of human nature, all the while acknowledging that humans are kind, sweet, awkward, innocent, well-intentioned. Well it's all fucked now. I get it. That's why all his characters were fucked, kind of proves to yourself that you're okay. Just as messed up as everyone else. Helps beg a little empathy or sympathy, doesn't it? As someone who has been on both ends of the stick, I get it. But it's not okay though, is it. He's hurt so many, dehumanized these women. Used them for his own fetish, thereby propagating an unhealthy culture of powerful men exerting their influence in ways that diminished women.

Is he a good man that's done bad things, or a bad man who has done some good in the world? Which is it? His comedy has brought me so much laughter, and captured my own inherent fucked-up-ness in a way that was both disarming and reassuring. Now it's all fucked because I can't get it back. His jokes won't be the same. I've lost this safe space of mine that let me be introspective and laugh.

He deserves whatever happens to his career next though. No matter how fucked up you are on the inside, you don't let it hurt others. That is an axiom I stand by with all my heart (those of you who know anything about my personal history understand why). There is no out, let him and this toxic culture be brought down and persecuted.

Having said that... is it okay to want him to not hurt? Is it okay to be worried about his well being, at this point? Can I feel for both him and the women he's assaulted, or is there too much contradiction in doing so? The answer to my earlier question about good vs bad men probably determines the way you feel about this, huh?

Well, here we are. I've always felt the need to express myself by detailing my confused thoughts on paper after an event disturbs the ever so delicate equilibrium of my emotional state (ps that is the name of my mixtape :fire:)
