---
Title: Iceland
description: From Oct 22-28 I went to the place of inspiration for all your fantasy novels
tags:
- travel
- Iceland
---

I've been trying the past week to try and write/create something that could provide the kind of closure I needed after my recent trip to Iceland. I don't know how to best recount my days, with the right balance between genuine adventure and romantic dramatization, but also fairly portraying those moments frequently lost in recollection. The intermission between each 'exciting incident'. Like sitting on the bus as we drive from one tourist site to another. Like that pang of jealousy as the stupid couple (so stupid, so many of them) sitting on the tour bus across from you makes fantastic conversation with the cute tour guide (very cute) while you sulk and fantasize about maybe working up the courage to ask him if the next stop had a restroom you could use.

Iceland was the perfect destination for a solo trip. While each of the prior trips I've taken alone have been it's own lesson in self-discovery, this time was truly wonderful/amazing/unique/perfection (ad nauseam). I went in with minimal (frankly, carefully managed) expectations but an heart open to wonder, and boy, did I experience that in spades. I smile every time I am caught in a memory. The people I've met. The awe-inspiring sights. The cute Icelandic tour guide with a growl in his voice, flaxen stubble contouring his chin, and frosty blue eyes. God he was cute.

I plan on creating a series of posts that summarizes the few days I spent in this country which has stolen my heart. (Quick author's note: Jesus, that's what it is! This heartache. Completely, utterly smitten - and now, nostalgic and wistful). For now, here are some of my thoughts on traveling solo.

* If you've been feeling a little jaded (for various reasons TRUMP of which I won't go into TRUMP detail), taking a solo trip is a great exercise in renewing your faith in human kindness. People like being given opportunities to practice good will, and most rise to the occasion. When seeing someone in distress, the average person will instinctively proffer assistance (in a very specific case of which I will expand on in a future post, this meant asking you to take a few hits off their blunt). You, on the other hand (being a solo traveler) are also much more receptive to the kindness of strangers. I pride myself on being fairly independent but jesus christ there is nothing like that hysterical rush of gratitude when you are alone at a bar, and a grandfatherly man sits by you and buys you your next whiskey before striking up a conversation (who, spoiler alert, unfortunately turned out to be a bit of a creep. But I digress... and shall keep doing so)

* If you like reading fiction, as I do (very much), this is the perfect opportunity to play protagonist. I get to be any character I want because, for fuck's sake, no one knows who I am. I could be that girl who frequents bars alone and strikes up a conversation with the cutest dude there because she is just that confident in herself. Okay, I wasn't, and didn't, but not the point. I get to be the boisterous me who spits jokes like Eminem spits rhymes (forgive me) or the quiet fly on the wall, observing all your awkward mannerisms and giggling to herself. I also allow myself to get lost in the romance of the moment, be it waves crashing against the impressive cliffs of Arnarstapi or finally asking the tour guide about the bathroom issue when he shoots you the most devilishly charming smirk for no apparent reason, making you want to rip his shirt off and take him right there, on the bus, in front of everyone... So yeah, romance. Present in the moment. Yes.

(I warned you about the tangents.)

* Continuing on my previous point about immersion, being on my own allows me to build a relationship with the location I'm in. I make much more of an effort to meet new people, be it tourists or locals, and to get to know the city/country. My attention isn't divided by any one, particular person. I also get to be selfish, and develop the relationship at my own pace. By the end of this trip, for example, I think Iceland and I are at the point where we've talked about anal but maybe one of us wasn't ready. I don't know. The love is real though.

* Selfishness is severely underrated, at least for traveling alone. Every whim of restlessness, curiosity, wonder, is satisfied. It could be 10pm and I've just gotten back from a twelve hour tour, but the forecast for the northern lights is good and I want to see them again. Therefore, fuck it, I'll do the six mile walk to the pier with the best view because that's just what I want to do. No need to feel bad about leaving behind a significant other/friend. This is all about me and Reykjavik, baby.  

* Romantic subplots. Before you get your knickers in a twist *nothing happened*. But there is some small resolution to the cute tour guide saga -- *Tune in next time to find out!*

* Making new friends is easier. Could very well be that this bares truer for an unintimidating 5'6" asian girl than others - not sure. Untested hypothesis. As it is, with my impressive sample size of one, I stand by my claim. I tagged along with a pair of sisters from California for dinner and then drinks at the local tiki bar. I got to know a newlywed couple from New York who eloped in Iceland, bought them a congratulatory shot, and ended up bar hopping with them until 4am. I met two guys who worked on the Keystone Pipeline, who were insistent on talking football despite many protestations on my part, but were nevertheless incredibly kind. A Japanese woman who grew up in Brazil, and came just to see the northern lights. A British family, whose patriarch's life was once saved by a pickaxe while glacier hiking. The hilarious and headstrong girl from Istanbul who, after confirming that I was traveling alone, asked me if I was single (I was and am) and burst out laughing. It's really lovely to think that with the many people that I've met from all over the world, our lives have intersected at this point, on this beautiful island, and I will always have a small role in their memories of Iceland.
